#Experience Cloud
Engage with your customers, employees and partners with Salesforce Experience Cloud (formerly Community Cloud).

With Experience Cloud, customers and partners can perform self-service and quickly find answers to questions without contacting a support agent.  Whether you call it a self service portal, a help forum, a support site, HR central, or something else, your organization can reduce costs by providing customers the ability to help themselves before contacting your service team. Experiences can be accessed anywhere, anytime, and from any device. The mobile experience combines an elegant, easy-to-use interface with powerful Salesforce functionality. All Experience Cloud sites are 100% mobile optimized and can be published as a branded mobile app in the Apple App Store or Google Play Store using Salesforce Mobile Publisher. 

What differentiates Experience Cloud from the competition is that it combines the system of record - the service desk - with the system of engagement - the Experience Cloud site. Because Experience Cloud seamlessly integrates with Service Cloud, customers create and track service cases, incidents, inquiries, or other related information right from Experience Cloud. Additionally, members and support agents can contribute questions and crowdsource answers, ensuring that both can quickly find the best solutions. Your organization’s customers can access a rich portal environment in Salesforce where they can search for answers in a knowledge base, share information and their experiences with other customers, and if they cannot solve their problem by themselves, they can easily escalate their issue to your organization’s support with using case creation out of the box components, einstein bots, chat, or Salesforce automation tools. Cases show up in the Service Cloud Console and service agents can respond directly or via the Experience Cloud site. In fact, service cases can be automatically created if questions go unanswered for 24 hours. The use of this lower-cost channel will improve deflection rates so that your organization’s agents can focus their time on more complex customer inquiries. Below are examples of Experience Cloud sites.
 
Example Experience Cloud Unauthenticated User Homepage

 	 
Example Experience Cloud 311 Page	Example Experience User Case Tracking

View an Experiences Cloud Overview Video 

Self-service functionality allows users to self-register and obtain/validate their password via opt-in email, or register and authenticate using their user credentials already established at third-party providers like Facebook, Google, and others.  An administrator using configuration can make information regarding service requests or other CRM data and knowledge articles available. Automated and manual updates to service requests or other CRM data can push email or text notifications to users so they are kept in the loop. With a mobile app using Salesforce mobile publisher, app notifications can be pushed to mobile devices to get notifications quickly in front of customers. In addition, users can log in to see a comprehensive view of all service requests or other relevant CRM data including checking statuses, uploading attachments and files, and posting updates to agents. 

Experience Cloud also supports automated workflows using Salesforce flows. Flows can be configured to create guided processes or forms for customers to enter information for creating or updating cases, applying for eligibility, or completing a form for a permit or license just to name a few examples. Next best actions from Salesforce can also be provided in Experience Cloud to provide recommendations based on information on CRM records for the customer or even based on the profile of the user.

Any organization can set up a digital experience in no time with out-of-the-box, customizable templates that can be modified with zero coding. Each template is prebuilt with a library of page layouts and components tailored for specific use cases, such as customer service, help desk, employee support, and partner relationship management. These templates can be activated with one click. You can also connect your brand’s style guides to extend your identity. With pre-built themes from Salesforce, any customer - big or small - can create a visually stunning experience for their users. The theme panel allows you to efficiently apply color, fonts, and style to your experience to match your design or brand. Match your colors precisely by uploading your logo to automatically generate a custom color scheme. Create branding sets to quickly change color and style for different audiences and needs. With audience targeting, you can control which page, theme, or component is visible to your members and create a custom experience for groups or individuals. Additionally, with marketing journeys, you can target members with personalized content and offers.  

The enhanced sites and content platform is a flexible new system that brings together Salesforce CMS and Lightning Run Time (LWR) sites. Now, new LWR sites and CMS workspaces are hosted together on a redesigned platform that offers you partial deployment, site content search, and easy content management. Because these new sites and workspaces are hosted together on the same platform, you can share content from an enhanced CMS workspace with an enhanced LWR site only. Existing CMS workspaces and LWR sites are unaffected by this change and can’t use the platform’s features. These enhanced sites and content platforms are automatically enabled. So any new LWR sites that you create using the Microsite or the Build Your Own (LWR) templates are now hosted on this new platform.

Mobile Publisher
Research shows that 3.3 hours out of 6 hours of daily internet usage are spent on mobile devices. That’s more than half! These always-connected consumers demand to engage with a brand whenever they feel like pulling their phone out of their pocket.

With an Experience Cloud site, we have made it easy to take that digital experience — everything from its content to its design and layout — and package it into a branded mobile app that is downloadable from the Apple App Store

How easy is easy? We created the Mobile Publisher to be simple enough for Salesforce admins to transform an existing Lightning Community into a mobile app for iOS or Android. All we require is a one-page form completed with your app details — such as a description and metadata, an app icon, and splash screen images. Once the admin hits “submit”, we take care of packaging and submission to the app marketplaces. Read more on setting up Mobile Publisher and branding your app.

In addition to making it fast and easy to build beautiful apps, Mobile Publisher for Experience Cloud automatically updates and publishes any change you make to the desktop version of your digital experience to your mobile app. It’s effortless to ensure your digital experiences are consistent, no matter how your customers access them. Check out a Salesforce Mobile Publisher Demo.

Mobile Publisher for Experience Cloud includes: 
●	Pixel-Perfect Branding: Brand your app with a custom app icon, splash screen, and app name.
●	Persistent Authentication: Once a user logs into the community, they can close the app and reopen without being logged out.
●	Local File Access: Users can access local files and photos right from their phone for upload into the app.
●	Push Notifications: Users get instant alerts and updates right on their phone homescreen.
●	Security: Offer authenticated and guest modes for unregistered users.
●	Multi-channel Updates: Any changes made in the community are instantly updated in the mobile app.
●	SDK Free – No third party integrations or mobile SDK is required.
●	Kiosk Mode for Barcode Scanner: Barcode scanner gets kiosk mode, which uses the front-facing camera on stationary devices to scan badges, guests tickets, or verifying vaccine codes.
●	Access Mobile Device Calendar: A calendar import feature lets users manage events from one location. 

And because it’s built on the world’s #1 CRM, every mobile app is connected to the same data and processes that are updated with every customer interaction. Learn more about Mobile Publisher through Trailhead.
 Publish Your Mobile App in Four Easy Steps


Content Management System (CMS)
We built Salesforce CMS to help empower teams, from novices to experts, to create content once, and then deliver it to any digital channel – all connected to customer data.

With Salesforce CMS, any user can create, manage, and deliver content. You can choose a content type or create custom types, and quickly draft the content in the app, no technical chops required. Multi-language and translation support help you scale, and permissions help you collaborate while maintaining brand standards. Content creators can also develop content collections, which are like playlists of content that can be added to different experiences.

Salesforce CMS is included in a limited capacity for all Salesforce orgs. Customers with Experience Cloud licenses can access all the features included in Salesforce CMS.
 
A hybrid CMS designed to help you easily create and deliver content to any channel or device.

Salesforce CMS is a hybrid CMS, which means your teams can create content in a central location, and syndicate it to any digital touchpoint powered by Salesforce or another system. With Salesforce CMS you can quickly create, manage and deliver content and extend it to a Salesforce touchpoint such as a commerce site, marketing email, or Experience Cloud digital experience on a portal, website or mobile app. You can even take CRM data and objects - such as product lists, inventory, and service cases and transform them into rich and engaging content. Additionally, you can extend that same content to any external touchpoint, providing the customer with a seamless, connected experience across all interactions with your brand.

If you want to add content to an experience built with Salesforce, your users can choose from two of our “what-you-see-is-what-you-get” (WYSIWYG) tools: Experience Builder and Commerce Page Designer. They can build an experience declaratively, and drag content components right onto the website, portal, forum, or commerce storefront. Both of these tools are developer-friendly, too, which is perfect if your design and development teams want to build the experience with code. If you want to deliver content onto a third-party site, experience, or mobile app, you can use our headless APIs to deliver content smoothly.

Because it is built by Salesforce, your content and data live in one system, allowing you to build and personalize content with customer data and then deliver it to any channel. Access all things CMS from The Digital Experience App. The Digital Experiences app, accessed from the Lightning Experience App Launcher, is where you create and manage all things Salesforce CMS. Here you can access the Digital Experiences Home, your CMS workspaces and channels, and Experience Builder sites. As outlined on the screenshot below, Salesforce Digital Experience Home consists of:
1.	Digital Experience navigation tab - Use this tab to jump to Digital Experiences Home, CMS Channels, CMS Experiences, and CMS Workspaces from anywhere in the app.
2.	CMS Workspaces tile - Quick access to the create CMS Workspace wizard.
3.	Experience Builder tile - Quick access to Experience Builder, where you can create sites that use your CMS workspace content.
4.	All CMS Workspaces - Manage recent CMS workspaces or create them. To view all your workspaces, click ‘View All’.
5.	All Sites - Manage recent Sites or create them. To view all your sites, click ‘View All’.
6.	Salesforce CMS help topics - Access links to help topics, blogs, and Trailhead content without leaving the app.

 
Salesforce Digital Experiences Home Page Overview

CMS Workspaces: CMS workspaces are the primary organizing and security principle in the Salesforce CMS app. Each CMS workspace consists of one or more channels that share content created by one or more contributors to the workspace. Create CMS workspaces to differentiate internal and external information, different geographies, or even different campaigns. Workspaces also help limit access to the content. Import content, such as images, news, documents, or custom content types, into a workspace in Salesforce CMS by uploading a .zip archive of JSON files. Transfer content from an external source or CMS or mass-import images from an external digital asset manager (DAM) for product enrichment. You can use role-based access to control who does what in each CMS workspace. Assign access roles to your contributors according to the level of access they need in a specific workspace. Workspaces also allow for organizing the CMS into folders for better organization and management of content.
 
Salesforce CMS Workspace

CMS Channels: CMS Channels let you share content in your CMS Workspaces with other endpoints. You can create channels to connect to Commerce Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Heroku, LEX apps, or any other third-party site using headless APIs. Or you can build a one-of-a-kind community site using Experience Builder.

CMS Content Types: Salesforce CMS comes with document, image, and news content types ready to customize for your content creating needs. These content types are ready for use, but you probably have more ideas for your content. With the ManagedContent API, you can quickly create content outside of the standard content types, and make it available to your users in the Salesforce CMS app. Share your content with multiple channels and add published content to layouts in your communities. Salesforce CMS offers collections and topics in the content management area of experience workspaces. Topics and collections help you group and organize your content for easy use, and to keep your community up-to-date with the latest content automatically. Collections and topics are unique to each community, letting you reuse content in different ways for different audiences. 

Headless APIs: Surface content to any customer touchpoint on any system. Content created once can be re-used across multiple channels. These can be anything ranging from Marketing Cloud, static websites, LEX apps to cloud platforms like Heroku or AWS Elastic Beanstalk to name a few.

CMS Collections Component: Serve dynamic lists of related content, objects, or data as visual collections. The CMS collection component can be added to an Experience Cloud page multiple times via  experience builder or Commerce Cloud page designer and can use collections created from CMS content or Salesforce CRM data.

 
Salesforce CMS Collections Component

Additional CMS functionality includes:
●	The ability to create schedules for your Salesforce CMS content to publish and unpublish at designated dates and times, and publish using auto-unpublish. 
●	Make finding CMS content easier for your users. Configure search within all your channels, including Experience Cloud sites, Commerce Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Heroku, LEX apps, and more to search for CMS content similar to how a customer can search for items such as Knowledge articles.
●	Version control content, revert to previous versions, and create drafts for others to review before publishing.

More than just managing content, a CMS tool puts your content to work to build better relationships with your audience. Businesses want to  be able to create, manage and deliver the right content to the right customer at the right place across the entire customer journey, from marketing and purchasing, to support, loyalty and beyond. This can yield huge dividends for every part of your organization.
Check out CMS in action through a hands-on campfire or visit the Salesforce CMS website built entirely on CMS. 
